---
layout: post
title: Ultra-high field fMRI reveals origins of feedforward and feedback activity within laminae of human ocular dominance columns
date:   2021-03-12 12:00:00
journal: Neuroimage
---

"<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117683" target="_blank" alt="Ultra-high field fMRI reveals origins of feedforward and feedback activity within laminae of human ocular dominance columns" >Ultra-high field fMRI reveals origins of feedforward and feedback activity within laminae of human ocular dominance columns</a>". 

Gilles de Hollander, Wietske van der Zwaag, Chencan Qian, Peng Zhang, Tomas Knapen

***Highlights***

- The advent of ultra-high field fMRI allows for the study of the human brain non-invasively at submillimeter resolution, bringing the scale of cortical columns and laminae into focus.
- De Hollander et al. imaged the ocular dominance columns and laminae of V1 in concert, while manipulating top-down attention. This allowed them to separate feedforward from feedback processes in the brain itself, without resorting to the manipulation of incoming information.
- Their results show how feedforward and feedback processes interact in the primary visual cortex, highlighting the different computational roles separate laminae play.


**Abstract** Ultra-high field MRI can functionally image the cerebral cortex of human subjects at the submillimeter scale of cortical columns and laminae. Here, we investigate both in concert, by imaging ocular dominance columns (ODCs) in primary visual cortex (V1) across different cortical depths. We ensured that putative ODC patterns in V1 (a) are stable across runs, sessions, and scanners located in different continents, (b) have a width (~1.3 mm) expected from post-mortem and animal work and (c) are absent at the retinotopic location of the blind spot. We then dissociated the effects of bottom-up thalamo-cortical input and attentional feedback processes on activity in V1 across cortical depth. Importantly, the separation of bottom-up information flows into ODCs allowed us to validly compare attentional conditions while keeping the stimulus identical throughout the experiment. We find that, when correcting for draining vein effects and using both model-based and model-free approaches, the effect of monocular stimulation is largest at deep and middle cortical depths. Conversely, spatial attention influences BOLD activity exclusively near the pial surface. Our findings show that simultaneous interrogation of columnar and laminar dimensions of the cortical fold can dissociate thalamocortical inputs from top-down processing, and allow the investigation of their interactions without any stimulus manipulation.